-------------------------------------------------
Document
-------------------------------------------------
h1. Table of Content

* "Cotta Convention":#convention
* "File Operations":#operations
* "File Systems":#filesystems
** "In-memory File System":#inmemory
** "Zip File System":#zip
** "FTP File System":#ftp
** "File Systems for Testing":#test
* "Utilities":utilities.html
** "Classpath Support":utilities.html#classpath
** "Product Info Support":utilities.html#productinfo
** "jBehave Support":utilities.html#jbehave

<a name="convention"> </a>
h1. Cotta Convention

Based on the ""Thoughts behind Cotta":power.html", Cotta is designed to match the common expectations for
file operations:

* One entry point, @TFileFactory@, is strongly recommended, event though not enforced.
* @TFile@ and @TDirectory@ are totally different classes, even though they have similar methods
* Return values are used only for retrieving the object state.  @TIoException@ will be thrown whenever an operation
  fails.
* All parent of a directory or file will be created automatically, no questions asked.

"API JavaDoc":javadoc/ should only be used for visitors to take a peek at what is inside.
Please do provide any feedbacks on any cases where you find them useful than this document.

<a name="operations"> </a>
h1. File Operations

Cotta offers three levels of flexibility for file operations to fit different development needs.

h2. Save and Load

This is used simply for saving and loading text contents.

<div class="Code">TFile fle = ...
file.save("content to save");
String loadedContent = file.load();
</div>

Or:

<div class="Code">TFile file = ...
file.open(new LineProcessor() {
  public void process(String line) {
    System.out.println("Read line: " + line);
  }
});</div>



h2. Managed Resource

All input or output resources created will be tracked and closed automatically, even upon exception.  This is similar
to the design of Spring template and Ruby file I/O.  All exceptions are wrapped in @TIoException@.

<div class="Code">TFile file = ...
file.open(new FileIoProcessor() {
  public void process(FileIoResource io) throws IOException {
    PrintWriter printer = io.printWriter();
    printer.println("line one");
    printer.println("line two");
  }
});</div>

h2. I/O Factory

An I/O factory that does not more than allowing the creations of common I/O streams, reader/writer, printer with just one
method call.

<div class="Code">TFile file = ...
PrintWriter printer = file.io().printWriter();
try {
  printer.println("line one");
  printer.println("line two");
} catch (IOException e) {
  // ... exception handling code here
} finally {
  printer.close();
}</div>

<a name="filesystems"> </a>
h1. File Systems

h2. PhysicalFileSystem

The wrapper of Java file operations.  This is the default file system that @TFileFactory@ uses.

<a name="inmemory"> </a>
h2. InMemoryFileSystem

This is used mainly for testing by replacing the FileSystem.  @InMemoryFileSystem@ also treat
the current directory as a unique location to prevent the bug that caused by the uncertainty of
current working directory.  You can also configure the @InMemoryFileSystem@ to have different
path separator or listing order

<a name="zip"> </a>
h2. ZipFileSystem

A read-only file system that allows archive file browsing.

<a name="ftp"> </a>
h2. FtpFileSystem

A file system as a FTP client.

<a name="test"> </a>
h2. ControlledFileSystem and CatastrophicFileSystem

These are wrapper classes used to control the file system read and writer operations.  @CatastrophicFileSystem@
is specially designed to test the case of file system failure or file lock.

h1. Utilities

Cotta also contains a small set of useful "utilities":utilities.html.
