--------------------------------------
Version Numbering
--------------------------------------
h1. Version Numbering

The COTTA project follows strict rules that govern its use of version
numbers.  The version number of a release indicates how that release
is compatible with previous and future releases.

Thanks to "jMock":http://www.jmock.org for this page, which we
have stolen wholesale.

Version numbers have the form

    <var>major</var>.<var>minor</var>.<var>patch</var>.

The major version number identifies the API version.  A release that
changes the API in a way that breaks backwards compatibility will
increment the major version number and reset the minor and patch versions
to zero.  The minor version number identifies the backwards compatible
revision of the API.  An API version that adds new elements to the API
will have the same major version, increment the minor version and set the
patch version to zero.  The patch version number identifies revisions
that do not  change the API.  A release that fixes bugs or refactors
implementation details without changing the API will have the same minor
and major versions as the previous release and increment the patch number.

A hypothetical example:

|1.0.0|First release|
|1.0.1|Improves JavaDoc comments|
|1.1.0|Adds new API elements|
|1.2.0|Adds new API elements, deprecates some API elements|
|1.2.1|Fixes bugs|
|2.0.0|Incompatible API changes, removes API elements deprecated by version 1.2.0.|
|2.1.0|Adds new API elements|
|etc.|etc.|

h2. Release Candidates

Before a new major or minor release, COTTA will make release
candidate (RC) packages available so that users can test them against
their own code.  There will be one or more release candidates given the
version <var>major</var>.<var>minor</var>.0 RC<var>n</var>, where the
major and minor version numbers identify the upcoming release and RC1
identifies the first candidate release, RC2 the second, and so on.

A release candidate does not guarantee backward compatibility with
new API features introduced by any previous RC of the same upcoming
version.

A major version RC can change/remove API features introduced in a
previous RC for the same major version;  a minor version RC can change
API features introduced by any previous RC of the same upcoming minor
version but guarantees backward compatibility with the previous minor
version.

h2. Development Snapshots

During development, the continuous integration process will automatically
builds snapshot packages (once it is configured).  These are not guaranteed to be complete:
although the unit tests will all pass the snapshot will probably contain
failing acceptance tests that describe planned or requested features that
have not yet been implemented.  Snapshots are identified by the UTC time
at which the continuous integration process built the package.  The
timestamp has the form <var>YYYYMMDD-hhmmss</var>, where YYYY is the
(four-digit) year, MM the month, DD the day, hh the hour, mm the minute and
ss the second.  The snapshot version is included in the filename of the snapshot
archive itself, but expanding the archive will create a directory named
after the snapshot version.

h2. Versioning and Deprecation

A minor release might deprecate some API features.  Deprecated features
will not actually be removed until the next major release.
A release will never remove API features that have not been deprecated in
a previous release.
